***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer: a computer language that is used by programmers(developers) to communicate with computers. it is set of instructions written in any specific (c++,c java,python) to perform a specific task.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer: The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets. It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development

What is an IDE?
Answer: Integrated Development Environment, is a program that helps you write software. An IDE helps you to organise your software projects.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer: ECLIPSE,INTELLIJ,NETBEANS,JDEVELOPER,BLUEJ,JCREATOR AND DEJAVA .

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer: Life cycle of a java program tells us what happens right from the point when we type source code in a text editor to the point that source code is converted into machine code (0’s and 1’s).
        There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program. They are
         -Editing the program
         -Compiling the source code
         -Executing the byte code
What is a class?
Answer:CLASS IS a blueprint or representation of a real-world object.

What is an object?
Answer:any object can be described using its attributes/ characteristics, and the method that object can perform.

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer:
public static void main(String args[]) {}
Why is the main() method static?
Answer:the method is static so that JVM can invoke it without  instantiating the class. This also saves the unnecessary wastage of memory which would have been used by the object declared only for calling the main() method by the JVM.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:The Object class, which is stored in the java. lang package, is the ultimate superclass of all Java classes (except for Object ).

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: The main difference between PATH and CLASSPATH is that Path is set for java tools in java programs like java and javac, which are used to compile your code. Whereas CLASSPATH is used by System or Application class loader to locate and load compile Java bytecodes stored in the . class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: An abstract class allows you to create functionality that subclasses can implement or override. An interface only allows you to define functionality, not implement it. And whereas a class can extend only one abstract class, it can take advantage of multiple interfaces.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer: No,You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class (interface is not even considered as a class.) What you can do is to implement a subclass of abstract class which, of course, must not be abstract.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:Access modifiers are object-oriented programming that is used to set the accessibility of classes, constructors, methods, and other members of Java. Using the access modifiers we can set the scope or accessibility of these classes, methods, constructors, and other members.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:The main ideas behind Java's Object-Oriented Programming, OOP concepts include abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance and polymorphism. Basically, Java OOP concepts let us create working methods and variables, then re-use all or part of them without compromising security.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer: Java compiler imports java. lang package internally by default. It provides the fundamental classes that are necessary to design a basic Java program.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:An API (Application Programming Interface) is a set of functions that allows applications to access data and interact with external software components, operating systems, or microservices.
    -List of Java APIs ; Apache POI · JXL · JExcel ; Slick · jMonkey Engine · JPCT Engine ; Java Platform · Application programming interface ·
Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:multiple inheritances is not allowed in java.
        The reason behind this is to prevent ambiguity. Consider a case where class B extends class A and Class C and both class A and C have the same method display(). Now java compiler cannot decide, which display method it should inherit. To prevent such situation

What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer: Method overloading in java is based on the number and type of the parameters passed as an argument to the methods.
       the lists are as followed:-
       Method 1: By changing the number of parameters.
       Method 2: By changing the Data types of the parameters.
       Method 3: By changing the Order of the parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer: An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program, that disrupts the normal flow of the program's instructions. When an error occurs within a method, the method creates an object and hands it off to the runtime system.
        handling exceptions. Put the code you want to run in the try block, and any Java exceptions that the code throws are caught by one or more catch blocks. This method will catch any type of Java exceptions that get thrown. This is the simplest mechanism for handling exceptions.
What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:The static keyword in Java is mainly used for memory management.
 The static keyword in Java is used to share the same variable or method of a given class. The users can apply static keywords with variables, methods, blocks, and nested classes.
 The static keyword belongs to the class than an instance of the class.
 The static keyword is used for a constant variable or a method that is the same for every instance of a class.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:The final keyword is a non-access modifier used for classes, attributes and methods, which makes them non-changeable (impossible to inherit or override).
 The final keyword is useful when you want a variable to always store the same value, like PI (3.14159...).
  The final keyword is called a "modifier".

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:The basic difference between final, finally and finalize is that the final is an access
 modifier, finally is the block in Exception Handling and finalize is
 the method of object class.

What is a constructor?
Answer:A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize
objects. The constructor is called when an object of a class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer: yes :-The technique of having two (or more) constructors in a class is known as constructor overloading.
 A class can have multiple constructors that differ in the number and/or type of their parameters.
  It's not, however, possible to have two constructors with the exact same parameters.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:If a class does not explicitly declare any constructors, the Java platform automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor, that does nothing.
 Thus, all classes have at least one constructor.

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:Within an instance method or a constructor, this is a reference to the current object
 — the object whose method or constructor is being called.
You can refer to any member of the current object from within an instance method or a constructor
 by using this .

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate
 parent class object. Whenever you create the instance of subclass, an instance
 of parent class is created implicitly which is referred by super reference variable.
  1. super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:The JVM is not platform independent. Java Virtual Machine (JVM) provides
the environment to execute the java file(. Class file). So at the end it's
depends on your kernel , and kernel is differ from OS (Operating System) to OS.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer: long-term support version 11 (LTS)

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:for Java ARchive. It's a file format based on the popular ZIP file format and is used
for aggregating many files into one.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:JDK is a software development kit to develop applications in Java.
It is a software bundle which provides Java class libraries with necessary
 components to run Java code. JVM executes Java byte code
 and provides an environment for executing it.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:JRE is an environment, in order to execute any Java program locally.
 JVM is where it's responsible for converting the Bytecode into machine
  specific code and makes java program write-once-run-anywhere.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:Compile time is the period when the programming code (such as C#, Java, C, Python)
is converted to the machine code (i.e. binary code).
 Runtime is the period of time when a program is running and generally occurs
  after compile time.

What is heap?
Answer:heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic
memory management system called a garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes.
 StringBuffer is thread-safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not.
  That's why StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
Answer:In object-oriented programming, a singleton class is a class
that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte
stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to
recreate the actual Java object in memory. This mechanism is used to persist
the object.

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:The do while loop executes the content of the loop once before checking
the condition of the while.
Whereas a while loop will check the condition first before executing the content.

What is Enum?
Answer:An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants (unchangeable variables, like final variables).

What is Iterator?
Answer: In JavaScript an iterator is an object which defines a sequence and potentially a return value upon its termination.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:An Integer object will take more memory an Integer is the an object
 and it  store meta data overhead about the object and
 int is primitive type so its takes less space.

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:The String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and
concurrency, caching, and class loading.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:The only difference between serial and parallel garbage collector is
that serial garbage collector uses a single thread for garbage collection
 process while the parallel garbage collector uses multiple threads for
  the garbage collection.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:The Just-In-Time

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic
memory management. Java programs compile to bytecode that can be run on a Java
Virtual Machine, or JVM for short. When Java programs run on the JVM,
objects are created on the heap, which is a portion of memory dedicated to the program.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out
of memory. The purpose of garbage collection (GC) is to identify and discard objects
 that are no longer needed by a Java program, so that their resources can be
 reclaimed and reused.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer: The stack is used to store the order of method execution and local
 variables while the heap memory stores the objects and it uses dynamic
  memory allocation and deallocation.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language.
 It allows an executing Java program to examine or "introspect" upon itself,
  and manipulate internal properties of the program.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads
 simultaneously for maximum utilization of the CPU.

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer: the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is a Framework?
Answer:It's a Java platform for developing software applications and Java programs.

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:There are 9 of the best Java testing frameworks:
       JUnit. JUnit is one of the popular Java unit testing frameworks. ...
       JBehave. JBehave is also one of the best Java Testing Frameworks, primarily used with Selenium WebDriver for Java testing. ...
       Serenity.
       Selenium.
       TestNG.
       Mockito.
       HTTPUnit.
       Gauge.

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests.
TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an upgraded option for running tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:In object-oriented programming, a class may rely on objects of other classes.
A dependency injection is a strategy that is used to separate the creation
of dependency objects from the class that needs them.


Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:Static binding uses Type information for binding
 while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding.